# Teamwork Statement #
## §1 ##

  Our team is focused on collectively striving towards a good grade in SE 370. In addition, our team is developing our skills both in the programming language as well as tools such as GitHub. We will work on the project to the best of our abilities and areas of competence to create a prototype for a project that strives to assist people in their daily lives. Regardless of the completeness of the final product, we aim to further our understanding of the software engineering process and turn any shortcomings of the project into learning experiences that we will carry with us to our respective careers.

## §2 ##

  For communication outside of school, we will coordinate using a shared Discord group. Using GitHub’s built in to-do list, we will shift responsibilities for project tasks based on what we are comfortable with by evaluating our own individual technical skills with respect to each other. Afterwards, we will make a list of possible roles that each of us can fulfill over the course of the project (for example, UX Designer, Programmers for Individual Classes, Debugger, Researcher for Outside Topics). Any remaining roles will be filled either voluntarily or designated by the project lead if left unfulfilled.

## §3 ##

  Team decisions will be done with a majority vote in terms of any pivots needed or shifting of responsibilities. To have accountability, we will have periodic meetings to check-in on our performance in our classes and key features for the project that we need to focus on for the next week. Unexcused absences from these meetings will negatively impact our end-of-semester evaluations towards each other, and as such will affect our final grade in SE 370.
  To accommodate for each of our schedules, we will designate a certain amount of hours per week to work on the project without having a specific day. There is a minimum amount of 5 hours dedicated per person for the week. Just as above, if one cannot fulfill this minimum amount of time spent on the project due to personal reasons, they can inform the entire group through the shared Discord group.
  For common teamwork time, we will utilize the periods in between classes since we are on the same schedule. More importantly, lunch will be an important period to use as crunch time and work on any last-minute errors that we are able to find. If errors or group discussion persists out of these time frames, we will find an appropriate time to discuss, likely being through Discord's video call feature.
  One potential project risk includes homework overlapping with project time. To alleviate this, we will encourage each other to do the homework early, and help each other if we have any questions about the homework. Similarly, another project risk includes work or outside factors that may interrupt work on the project. To this end, our team will communicate these situations to each other as soon as possible to reduce scheduling issues. A development-related project risk includes running into a problem that exceeds our area of competence. As software engineers, we are obliged to seek assistance. To this end, we will consult the professor about possible roadblocks to the project and seek possible alternatives rather than create a product without full confidence in its development and implementation.
  Obviously, there are many different types of risks, each holding their own chance of occurrence and severity. Therefore, we must have an agreed approach to addressing any concerning risk in the future. This will first start with addressing the risk. Our team will take the time on a bi-weekly status to view the risk management handout during common teamwork time. The goal of viewing this would be to elicit recognition of potential risks that were previously going unthought of. A main risk we are projecting is technology risk as the twelve weeks we have may make it a challenge for us to be able to fit in all of our features. We would like to make the application as seamless as possible, but the amount of information that needs to be transferred may prove to be a very tall task. This may inevitably lead to requirements risk as the challenges presented can force us to reconsider critical aspects of the project. Because of these risks, we will need to very carefully plan out what we want and what can be left behind. A strong framework will make us understand exactly what efforts will be put in and where. 
